So now let's talk about
mappings in CloudFormation.
So mappings are fixed variables
within your CloudFormation templates,
and they're very handy if you want to differentiate
between different environments.
For example, dev versus prod,
and give different values for those,
or regions, such as AWS regions or AMI types and so on.
So all the values that are possible are hardcoded
within the template and here is the format of mappings.
But to make it a bit more concrete,
I'm going to show you a region map.
So here, based on the region you have, so us-east-1,
us-west-1, or eu-west-1, and based on the architecture
you're using, for example, HVM64 or HVMG2,
this is going to give you a different AMI ID every time.
Well, we know that the AMIs are specific
based on the region, so of course it makes sense
to have a different AMI per region.
So it's a great candidate for a mapping.
Now to access the mapping values, here is an example.
So we have an EC2 instance that is using an ImageId.
And this ImageId is using the FindInMap function.
And to use this FindInMap function,
we first need to use a map name.
So here we have the RegionMap.
Then we have the top level key.
So what we want to use in here,
we have a reference to the pseudo parameter AWS::Region.
So if you launch this template in us-east-1,
it's going to be us-east-1,
and if you launch it to us-west-1,
automatically this pseudo parameter
is going to resolve to us-west-1.
And then finally, the type of architecture you want,
for example, HVM64.
And this works great because, well,
AMIs are region specific,
and so you want to make sure you have the right AMI
for the right region and the right architecture.
So when do you use mappings versus parameters?
Well, the mappings are great when you know in advance
all the values that can be taken
and that they can be deduced from variables
such as the region, the availability zone, the AWS account,
the environment, dev versus prod, et cetera, et cetera.
They allow you safer control over the templates.
But if you have values that really depend
on what the user wants
and what they're thinking about at runtime,
then you want parameters
to give the user a maximum amount of freedom.
So that's it for mappings.
I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.